 # 1.2 Chemical Bonding Notes and Worksheet

1. Formulas:
	1. CuO
	2. $K_2CO_3$
	3. AgBr
	4. $Cr_2O_3$
	5. $MgF_2$
	6. $Na_3PO_4$
	7. $AlCl_3$
	8. $Sn(NO_3)_4$
	9. ZnS
	10. $(NH_4)_2SO_4$

2. electron transfer equations: dont have a pen, so will write half equations
	1. $Mg \rightarrow Mg^{2+} + 2\bar e$, $S + 2\bar e \rightarrow S^{2-}$
	2. $Na \rightarrow Na^{+}+ \bar e$, $F + \bar e \rightarrow F^-$
	3. $Ca \rightarrow Ca^{2+} + 2 \bar e$, $O + 2 \bar e \rightarrow O^{-2}$

3. Writing formulae
	1. $K_2O$
	2. $CaCl_2$
	3. $LiF$
	4. $ZnI_2$
	5. $Ag_3N$
	6. $SnBr_2$

4. Uses of ionic compounds?
1. $NH_4NO_3$ , dissolves extremely well in water
2. $CaCO_3$, is hard, and non-malleable
3. $NaHCO_3$ same as number 2?
4. $CaF_2$, dissolves well in water
5. $NaCl$, brittle, firm structure
6. $Ca_3(PO_4)_2$
7. $Na_2CO_3$

5. Concept map:
	1. A charged particle
	2. A positively charged particle
	3. A negatively charged particle
	4. Hard, but easily breakable
	5. Turns into liquid via heat
	6. Electrons that easily move from one atom to another
	7. A 3d structure of cations and anions that are arranged in a uniform, positive to negative to positive (etc.) structure. They are held together via strong electrostatic attraction between unlike ions, whereas the similar ions are separated far enough to overcome the weaker repulsion force.
	8. A substance where electrons can move freely from atoms to atom.
	9. Simplest whole number ratio of a chemical compound
	10. A non-contact force where oppositely charged particles are attracted to each other, and similarly charged particles are repulsed by each other.
	11. Electrons that are transferred from an atom to another. They are found on the outer shell of an atom(valence shell).
	12. A bond between non-metals and non-metals, where electrons are shared, so atoms can obtain the electronic configuration of their nearest noble gas.

6. Try the following
	1. $SiF_4$
	2. $Ag_2S$
	3. $MgI_2$
	4. $FePO_4$
	5. $Ca(OH)_2$
	6. $H_2O$
	7. $SO_3$
	8. $Cr(NO_3)_3$
	9. $BaCl_2$
	10. $NO$
	11. $PCl_5$
	12. $Zn(HCO_3)_2$
	13. $Li_2S$
	14. $NaCl$
	15. $NO_2$
	16. $(NH_4)_2SO_4$
	17. $CuBr$
	18. $Ag_3PO_4$
	19. $CaO$
	20. $S_2O_3$

7. Write the valence for the following:
	1. +1
	2. -3
	3. -2
	4. -2
	5. -1
	6. -1
	7. 2+
	8. -1
	9. -1
	10. 3+
	11. -1

8. Write the formulas for the ionic compounds which form between the following ions:
	1. $NaNO_3$
	2. $Al(OH)_3$
	3. $Li_2S$
	4. $MgCl_2$
	5. $(NH_4)_2SO_4$
	6. $Fe_2O_3$
	7. $Mg_3(PO_4)_2$

9. Write the formulae for the following ionic compounds:
	1. $NaCl$
	2. $Na_2O$
	3. $NaOH$
	4. $NaNO_3$
	5. $Na_2SO_4$
	6. $Na_3PO_4$
	7. $NaF$
	8. $Na_2S$
	9. $NaBr$
	10. $AlPO_4$

10. Name the following:
	1. Magnesium oxide
	2. Calcium hydrogencarbonate
	3. Copper (I) oxide
	4. Lead (II) oxide
	5. Iron (III) hydroxide
	6. Sodium hydrogensulfate
	7. Potassium chloride
	8. Potassium iodide
	9. Calcium phosphate
	10. Hydrogen fluoride/hydrofluoric acid

11. Write the formulas for the following ionic compounds:
	1. $(NH_4)_2S$
	2. $Cu(NO_3)_2$
	3. $K_3PO_4$
	4. $PbF_2$
	5. $Al_2(SO_4)_3$
	6. $NaHCO_3$
	7. $SnCO_3$
	8. $HgCl$
	9. $(NH_4)_2CO_3$

12. Write molecular formulas for the following:
	1. $NH_4$
	2. $H_2O$
	3. $NO_2$
	4. $SO_2$
	5. $NO_3$
	6. $CO$
	7. $CO_2$
	8. $SO_3$
	9. $CCl_4$
	10. $N_2O_4$
	11. $N_2O$

13. Name the following chemical compounds:
	1. Sodium bromide
	2. Calcium hydrogencarbonate
	3. Diphosphate pentoxide
	4. Titanium (IV) sulfate
	5. Iron (III) phosphate
	6. Potassium nitride
	7. Sulfur dioxide
	8. Copper (I) hydroxide
	9. $SiO_2$
	10. $Ni_2S_3$
	11. $Mn_3(PO_4)_2$
	12. $B_2Br_4$
	13. $MgSO_4$
	14. $K_2CO_3$
	15. $(NH_4)_2O$
	16. $CCl_4$

14. Name the following elements:
	1. Lithium
	2. Zinc
	3. Sulfur
	4. Calcium
	5. Fe
	6. He
	7. K
	8. Ni

15. Write the correct name or symbol for the following mono/polyatomic ions:
	1. $Ba^{2+}$
	2. $Na^+$
	3. $O^{2-}$
	4. $NO_3^-$
	5. Calcium
	6. Chloride
	7. Aluminium
	8. Sulfate

16. Complete the following table relating to electron dot diagrams (not going to do dot diagrams, as stated above i dont have a pen)
	1. Sodium chloride
	2. Magnesium oxide
	3. Calcium fluoride
	4. Potassium sulfide
	5. HCl
	6. $Li_2O$

17. Metallic substances have the following properties.
	1. High melting point
	2. High boiling point
	3. High density
	4. High electrical/thermal conductivity
	5. High malleability
	6. High ductility

18. They have these properties because....
	1. There is an extremely strong force of attraction between metal cations and the sea of delocalised electrons. This means that more energy is needed to separate metallic ions. As by definition, the melting point is the temperature where particles that are very close to each are separated to the point where they are considered liquid, the melting point of metals are very high.
	2. Similarly to melting point, more energy is required to separate the atoms of metals, as the strong electrostatic force of attraction between ions and their sea of delocalised electrons keeps atoms together. Thus, the boiling point of metals are very high.
	3. There is a strong electrostatic force of attraction between metal cations and their sea of delocalised electrons. This pulls metal cations closer together, meaning there is a higher concentration of atoms within a set volume of a metal. Thus, metals are highly dense.
	4. In metallic bonding, electrons are mobile as they move around in a sea of delocalised electrons. This means that electrons easily move around in metals, making them good electrical/thermal conductors.
	5. The attractive force between the sea of delocalised electrons and metal cations is non-direction. Thus, when pressure is applied metal cations slide across within their sea of delocalised electrons. This makes metals malleable as they can easily be bent without the structure changing.
	6. There is no rigid structure or lattice within metallic bonding. This means that metals can be stretched into a linear shape, as thin as a single cation. This works as long as the cations are surrounded by a sea of delocalised electrons. Thus, metals are highly ductile