"back to melbourne" is a postmodernist poem discussing an individual's experience with the city of Melbourne. The text presents Melbourne as an emotionless, cruel city that neglects its citizens. My interpretation of the text is that through consonance, anaphora and imagery it critiques the concept of identity within the context of Melbourne, where the city's social and cultural setting is dysfunctional.

Through consonance, the poem presents the repetitive characteristics of life in Melbourne from a cynical perspective. The persona is shown to "find carlton cappuccino coffee comfort". In using consonance, the text emphasises the over-complicated lifestyle individuals live in Melbourne, with a basic item like coffee having multiple, excessive labels attached to it. The text criticises the artificiality of Melbourne's lifestyle, by cynically highlighting the excessive stylisation of generic goods. Furthermore, in using consonance to highlight the "manicured madonnas", the text brings to light the artificiality of women that excessively modify their beauty. In conveying that the women in Melbourne are heavily manicured, the text reinforces the stigma of artificial beauty taking prevalence within Melbourne's society and thus condemns the norms of synthetic beauty prevalent in Melbourne. Thus, through consonance, the text critiques how social norms in Melbourne revolve around artificiality and redundancy.

In using anaphora, the text presents Melbourne life as dull, repetitive and full of emotionally abusive people. By describing how the persona would "find the same faces in the same places in the same spaces", the text uses anaphora of the word "same" to convey to readers that life in Melbourne is stagnant and predictable. The text presents Melbourne's society as boring yet ruthless, with the persona finding "lovers that once sucked and bit and kissed and licked". By utilizing imagery, the text presents the reader with a visual description of love in Melbourne; melodramatic, painful and abusive. In doing so, the text directly attacks how love in Melbourne as a social activity has become corrupted with cruelty. Thus, through anaphora and imagery, the text portrays culture in Melbourne as both monotonous and emotionally soul-crushing.
