---
layout: default
---

# Literature In Class Essay

Works of literature are often classified into genres based on similar themes and tropes, but unique aspects of texts set them apart from their genre. "The Hunger Games" (2008) by Suzanne Collins is a young adult romantic novel that follows Katniss Everdeen's experience as a tribute of the Hunger Games, a televised event where tributes must kill each other to win. Produced at the height of American societal anxiety over conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan, the text is recognisably dystopian, but undermines past dystopian themes as it adapts to the young adult fiction genre. The text conforms to dystopian tropes in its presentation of an oppressive and unequal society, where fear and apathy towards hope for positive societal change keeps its citizens reticent. However, Collins subverts the traditional dystopian genre by presenting the stability of Panem's totalitarian regime as waning, and through portraying humane, emotional ideas not commonly explored in established dystopian literature, such as love and social relationships. 

Through imagery and passive diction, Collins adheres to the dystopian genre by presenting how the citizens of Panem are conditioned to submit to their oppression. Collins contrasts the apathy of District 12 for freedom from the authoritarian state with the lack of physical resistance to escape, conforming to the strongly dystopian theme of society giving way to oppression by means of neglect and indifference towards oppression. In the text, Katniss informs readers of the security surrounding District 12, describing a "high chain-linked fence topped with barbed-wire loops", that separates District 12 from the outside world. The use of visual imagery for the wall highlights the power of the Capitol, while disempowering the citizens of District 12, as they submit to the removal of their fundamental freedom of movement. Collins utilizes the wall as a symbol of tyranny to reinforce the dystopian nature of Panem's society, and the power imbalance between government and the people. In a modern society where free movement is commonplace, the idea of a wall strikes fear and concern in readers such as myself, unlike the citizens of District 12 who have been desensitised to their lack of freedom. Furthermore, Collins conveys the dejected attitude of those selected for the Hunger Games, when Katniss retells how "we are taken into custody. I don't mean we're handcuffed or anything". Katniss' colloquial diction, through nonchalantly saying "or anything", implores readers to contemplate the presentation of law and order in Panem. Katniss' compliance with being forced into the Hunger Games without handcuffs presents how hopeless tributes like Katniss are for their situation. In contemporary context, this scenario would be risible as one would expect violent physical opposition to such injustice, however Katniss' apathy to her fate upholds the dystopian trope of citizens blindly accepting misjustice. Thus, through the use of dialogue and imagery, Collins' text conforms to the dystopian genre in its portrayal of a defunct society, where the citizens of District 12 can not imagine a world without Panem's oppressive government.

Collins utilizes character voice of the protagonist and side characters to present Panem's social order as strong, but giving way to unrest and upheaval, subverting the dystopian trope of a stable government. Katniss recounts to the audience the universal resentment towards the Capitol, describing how "not one person claps... they take part in the boldest form of dissent... Silence. Which says we do not agree. We do not condone. All of this is wrong." The auditory imagery of the silence conveyed through short, sharp syntax highlights how unpopular the Panem's government is. This presentation of unopposed public protest undermines the dystopian nature of Panem, confusing readers such as myself, who envision dystopian societies as one where loyalty to the state must be demonstrated at all time, and where acts of protest such as this would evoke immediate punishment. After Rue's death, Katniss emotionally states how "It's the Capitol I hate, for doing this to all of us". Through emotive words such as "hate", Katniss conveys to readers her hatred for the Capitol, presenting to audiences the atmosphere of discontent with the Capitol's oppressive rule. This subverts traditional dystopian texts, by disempowering Panem's government and its stability as an authoritarian regime. In presenting the people of Panem as disapproving, Collins appeals to a young adult audience, by romanticizing revolution and discontent against government and engaging teenage audiences through the promise of action. Thus, through using character voice, Collins undermines the dystopian genre by presenting an unhappy population, and presenting the Capitol's control over the people's emotions as weak.

In highlighting Katniss' emotions through dialogue and characterization, Collins subverts traditional dystopian texts in their focus on life as a citizen in a totalitarian, dystopian society, by instead focusing on more emotional themes, such as love and social relationships. Peeta tells Katniss "we're madly in love, so it's all right to kiss me anytime you feel like it." The use of affectionate diction surprises audiences, as it subverts expectations of a dystopian text. The idea that raw love can be so easily expressed in a ruthless, oppressive society such as Panem starkly contrasts dystopias where love is viewed as dangerous and sometimes illegal. This presentation of romance appeals to contemporary audiences, who live in societies where freely expressing love is a social norm. In the text, Katniss details her attitude towards children in the community home, describing how "I could never let that happen to Prim. Sweet, tiny Prim". This contemplative and affectionate epistrophe characterises Katniss as caring for her sister like she was her mother. This explores their unique sororal relationship, which is unusual in a dystopian text, where it is conventional for there to be  a lack of individualism. In doing so, Collins subverts dystopian norms centred around the extent of totalitarianism in society, by presenting elements of love and emotion. As someone who reads the Hunger Games as modernist and liberal in its interpretation of the dystopian genre, I react with approval to Collins' humane representation of love in the text, and her appeal to the young adult audience. Thus, by utilizing characterization and diction, Collins aligns to the traditional portrayals of gender expected in conventional dystopian texts, but her inclusion of romance explores the scope of the dystopian genre, undermining founding dystopian texts.

Through symbolism, dialogue, characterisation and voice, Collins constructs a recognisably dystopian text that both conforms and subverts the dystopian genre. The society is dystopian in how it propagates apathy towards suffering, and the Panem government's totalitarian rule, yet its portrayal of a dissident, spiteful population and its unique representation of gender and romance subverts ideas found in texts such as George Orwell's "1984". In undermining traditional dystopian tropes, Collins intends to explore new perspectives of dystopian conventions, and modernises the genre for contemporary audiences. The text is an excellent example of a postmodernist work that revitalises traditional genres, in its incorporation of modern characteristics of text.

**Quotes**
- "The moment the anthem ends, we are taken into custody. I don't mean we're handcuffed or anything, but a group of Peacekeepers marches us through the front door of the Justice building. Maybe tributes have tried to escape in the past. I've never seen that happen though"
	- Katniss and Peeta do not resist - they are apathetic towards their future and do not believe they can change their situation, or the situation of their own society
	- Group not resisting, indicates their fear + their apathy for their situation
	- Oxymoron of justice building, yet injustice for the people of District 12 is prevalent.
- "people keel over from starvation all the time, but I can't imagine the Peacekeepers murdering a simpleminded child."
- "District Twelve. Where you can starve to death in safety"
- "peacemakers"
	- analyse what this means, irony of the name, etc.
- "high chain-linked fence topped with barbed-wire loops" => that separates District 12 from the outside world.
	- Wall is a physical and metaphorical barrier of exclusion => wire loops are symbols of hostility and the Capitol's excessively protective/possessive nature towards District 12 people.
	- ==Analyse lack of human protection?==
	- *The presence of the wall reinforces the extent of Panem's dystopian society, as even though Katniss easily bypasses the wall, she or any other citizen does not attempt to flee District 12.*
	- *In doing so, Collins successfully conforms to the dystopian trope of a harsh, inescapable society, as citizens of District 12 are shown as conditioned to the brutal oppression they face, and dismissive towards the possibility of a life without the Capitol.*
- "That was part of District 13's job until they were destroyed."
- "the uprising of the districts against the Capitol. Twelve were defeated, the thirteenth obliterated."
- Katniss' "father could have made good money selling [bows], but if the officials found out he would have been publicly executed for inciting a rebellion."
	- *This presentation of Panem's justice system is designed to shock the audience who are naturally mortified by its absurdly draconian measures.*
	- *The symbolism of bows as mere tools for hunting contrast the government's decision to brand them weapons of revolution.*
	- ==Analyse **power dynamic**(financial, authority, etc.)?????==
- "this is the Capitol’s  way of reminding us how totally we are at their mercy. How little chance we would stand of surviving another rebellion."


**Presentation of Katniss + Peeta relationship** 
- "Remember, we're madly in love, so it's all right to kiss me anytime you feel like it."
- "I protect Prim in every way I can, but I'm powerless against the reaping."
- "My little sister, Prim, curled up on her side, cocooned in my mother's body, their cheeks pressed together."
- "I could never let that happen to Prim. Sweet, tiny Prim who cried when I cried before she even knew the reason."

* Reword thesis
* Summarise main points
* End with 'food of thought' or statement that matches topic, but keeps marker thinking - shows through deeper, considered more
	* e.g. romance in hunger games is terrible, => does it accurately portray romance, in contemp. context
	* or *what makes a genre, how do crucial texts of a genre subvert the genre? is the dystopian genre built on unique interpretations of dystopia, and how do these texts conform/subvert the genre?*

